# deep_learning_research_project
202009 - Deep Learning models of my research Project

The use of artificial intelligence techniques have allowed the financial sector to apply algorithms and techniques that improve the predictive capacity of models in the area of credit risk. Additionally, the decrease in technological costs has allowed financial institutions to develop more robust models using a greater volume of data.

This project presents different Deep Learning algorithms applied to the area of credit risk. In each of them, various structures are evaluated as well as different values for the hyperparameters. In this work, three techniques were also applied on categorical variables as well as an oversampling technique was used in order to avoid bias in the results. The first contribution of this work was to address the various weaknesses found in previous studies that have applied deep learning techniques within the area of credit risk. This made it possible to avoid bias in the results and make fair comparisons between the proposed models.

The second contribution of this study is the comparison between the three encoding techniques applied in the categorical variables. With this, it was possible to determine which of them is the most suitable for this particular problem. The third contribution was the correct application of oversampling and 10-fold Crossvalidation techniques, which were not correctly applied in previous studies analysed. The use of these methods together made it possible to avoid biases in the results of the models. Finally, the fourth contribution is the comparison of both different structures within the same model as well as the comparison between different models. With this, it was possible to select the most suitable algorithm for this data set as well as to discard different structures that are not adequate to improve the performance of the evaluation metrics.

